I started pioneering in 1978 straight out of school and then after 17 years I had to stop
because I could no longer meet the R requirement. At one of the conventions I saw some sisters
interpreting the program into sign language and so I thought that even if I couldn't continue
pioneering I could do something more into over service by learning sign language and
so I started to do that because I was deeply grateful to Jehovah for all year done for me.
I resumed pioneering again in September 2009 and then I had the added blessing of
now pioneering in sign language field. One day I met Cecilia, she suffers from a genetic
syndrome called Asher's which causes deafness coupled with tunnel vision that can over time
lead to blindness. Because of that disability it made her extremely shy so it was very
difficult to communicate with her. I started studying with her in October 2009 and very quickly
she started attending meetings. I would fetch her for the meetings and then drop her off at home
afterwards. I lived about five minutes from the kingdom wall but she was 30 minutes away
and quickly I realised that she would also need to put in effort to get to the meetings in order
to make progress. Cecilia lived close to where she could catch a taxi up to the train line
and then it would be two train journeys to get to the kingdom hall so it would take her each way
an hour and a half to two hours. She also lived in a notoriously unsafe area because of gang violence
but I knew that Cecilia was strong willed enough and independent enough in spite of her
timidity and reticence to be able to get herself to the meetings. Cecilia was attending meetings
regularly but instead of a skirt she wore pants to the meeting. So I chatted to Nancy as the
staguer at the time was accompanying me to her study most weeks so that we could try and figure
out a way of helping her to make the change she needed to make. It took about a year of
gently showing pictures, reviewing the Bible principles but eventually she did get the point.
One of the weekends that she was staying over I went into her room and on her bed neatly laid out
with a skirt on top ready for the meeting. I thanked her over at that point because finally
our patience had been rewarded. We had all of our meetings on a Saturday with a lunch break
in between when we would associate but we noticed that Cecilia was isolating herself.
To reinforce for Cecilia the principle of act 20 verse 35 a friend came up with the good idea
of helping her to bake cookies that I before the meeting. Cecilia shyly offered the cookies to
each person bed during the lunch break and it elicited such a warm response from the brothers
and sisters and friends there. It really drove home the point for Cecilia and it was beautiful
to see her after that come out of her shell. In July 2014 Cecilia gave her first student talk
and in that month she also started publishing. There have been challenges particularly learning
sign language but even more so getting to understand the deaf culture the way that they think
also financial hardships but the challenges and the sacrifices were far outweighed by the blessings.
A day that's etched in my memory is the day that she told me she wanted to get baptized.
Cecilia has really become like a daughter to me and I'm so proud of the enormous strides that
she made in the truth. In October 2015 she was baptized. I cried with joy that day.
I've been pioneering now for 28 years and over that time particularly since I started again
and with Cecilia many many many brothers and sisters in the congregation helped me they accompanied
me to a study. They became friends with her they took over when I went away. I could never have
done it on my own. Above all Jehovah has helped me to cultivate qualities like patience, self-control,
humility, compassion. It was really wonderful to play a small part such a privilege
to help Cecilia to become part of Jehovah's family.